README.md, before:

# RoboPianist: A Benchmark for High-Dimensional Robot Control

[![build][tests-badge]][tests]
[![PyPI Python Version][pypi-versions-badge]][pypi]
[![PyPI version][pypi-badge]][pypi]

[tests-badge]: https://github.com/google-research/robopianist/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg
[tests]: https://github.com/google-research/robopianist/actions/workflows/ci.yml
[pypi-versions-badge]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/robopianist
[pypi-badge]: https://badge.fury.io/py/robopianist.svg
[pypi]: https://pypi.org/project/robopianist/

![RoboPianist teaser image](./docs/teaser1x3.jpeg)

RoboPianist is a new benchmarking suite for high-dimensional control, targeted at testing high spatial and temporal precision, coordination, and planning, all with an underactuated system frequently making-and-breaking contacts. The proposed challenge is *mastering the piano* through bi-manual dexterity, using a pair of simulated anthropomorphic robot hands.

This codebase contains software and tasks for the benchmark, and is powered by [MuJoCo](https://mujoco.org/).

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Install from source](#install-from-source)
  - [Install from PyPI](#install-from-pypi)
  - [Optional: Download additional soundfonts](#optional-download-additional-soundfonts)
- [MIDI Dataset](#midi-dataset)
- [CLI](#cli)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [FAQ](#faq)
- [Citing RoboPianist](#citing-robopianist)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
- [License and Disclaimer](#license-and-disclaimer)

## Getting Started

We've created an introductory [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google-research/robopianist/blob/main/tutorial.ipynb) notebook that demonstrates how to use RoboPianist. It includes code for loading and customizing a piano playing task, and a demonstration of a pretrained policy playing a short snippet of *Twinkle Twinkle Little Star*. Click the button below to get started!

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google-research/robopianist/blob/main/tutorial.ipynb)

## Installation

RoboPianist is supported on both Linux and macOS and can be installed with Python 3.8 up to 3.10. We recommend using [Miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) to manage your Python environment.

**3.11 will be supported once the numba team resolves [#8304](https://github.com/numba/numba/issues/8304).**

### Install from source

The recommended way to install this package is from source. Start by cloning the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/google-research/robopianist.git && cd robopianist
```

Next, install the prerequisite dependencies:

```bash
git submodule init && git submodule update
bash scripts/install_deps.sh
```

Finally, create a new conda environment and install RoboPianist in editable mode:

```bash
conda create -n pianist python=3.10
conda activate pianist

pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

To test your installation, run `make test` and verify that all tests pass.

### Install from PyPI

First, install the prerequisite dependencies:

```bash
bash <(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/google-research/robopianist/main/scripts/install_deps.sh) --no-soundfonts
```

Next, create a new conda environment and install RoboPianist:

```bash
conda create -n pianist python=3.10
conda activate pianist

pip install --upgrade robopianist
```

### Optional: Download additional soundfonts

We recommend you install additional soundfonts to improve the quality of the synthesized audio.

If you installed from source, the easiest way to download the soundfonts is to run the following script:

```bash
bash scripts/get_soundfonts.sh
```

If you installed from PyPI, you can download the soundfonts using the RoboPianist CLI:

```bash
robopianist --download-soundfonts
```

## MIDI Dataset

The PIG dataset cannot be redistributed on GitHub due to licensing restrictions. See [docs/dataset](docs/dataset.md) for instructions on where to download and how to process the dataset.

## CLI

RoboPianist comes with a command line interface (CLI) that can be used to download additional soundfonts, play MIDI files, and more. To see a list of available commands, run `robopianist --help`.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to RoboPianist. Please see [docs/contributing.md](docs/contributing.md) for more information.

## FAQ

See [docs/faq.md](docs/faq.md) for a list of frequently asked questions.

## Citing RoboPianist

If you use RoboPianist in your work, please use the following citation:

```bibtex
@software{zakka2023robopianist,
  author = {Zakka, Kevin and Smith, Laura and Gileadi, Nimrod and Howell, Taylor and Peng, Xue Bin and Singh, Sumeet and Tassa, Yuval and Florence, Pete and Zeng, Andy and Abbeel, Pieter},
  title = {{RoboPianist: A Benchmark for High-Dimensional Robot Control}},
  url = {https://github.com/google-research/robopianist},
  year = {2023},
}
```

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the following people for making this project possible:

- [Philipp Wu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/wuphilipp/) and [Mohit Shridhar](https://mohitshridhar.com/) for being a constant source of inspiration and support.
- [Ilya Kostrikov](https://www.kostrikov.xyz/) for constantly raising the bar for RL engineering and for invaluable debugging help.
- The [Magenta](https://magenta.tensorflow.org/) team for helpful pointers and feedback.
- The [MuJoCo](https://mujoco.org/) team for the development of the MuJoCo physics engine and their support throughout the project.

## License and Disclaimer

[MuJoco Menagerie](https://github.com/deepmind/mujoco_menagerie)'s license can be found [here](https://github.com/deepmind/mujoco_menagerie/blob/main/LICENSE). Soundfont licensing information can be found [here](docs/soundfonts.md). MIDI licensing information can be found [here](docs/dataset). All other code is licensed under an [Apache-2.0 License](LICENSE).

This is not an officially supported Google product.

Commit message:

Add more soundfont utilities to the CLI.

README.md, after:

# RoboPianist: A Benchmark for High-Dimensional Robot Control

[![build][tests-badge]][tests]
[![PyPI Python Version][pypi-versions-badge]][pypi]
[![PyPI version][pypi-badge]][pypi]

[tests-badge]: https://github.com/google-research/robopianist/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg
[tests]: https://github.com/google-research/robopianist/actions/workflows/ci.yml
[pypi-versions-badge]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/robopianist
[pypi-badge]: https://badge.fury.io/py/robopianist.svg
[pypi]: https://pypi.org/project/robopianist/

![RoboPianist teaser image](./docs/teaser1x3.jpeg)

RoboPianist is a new benchmarking suite for high-dimensional control, targeted at testing high spatial and temporal precision, coordination, and planning, all with an underactuated system frequently making-and-breaking contacts. The proposed challenge is *mastering the piano* through bi-manual dexterity, using a pair of simulated anthropomorphic robot hands.

This codebase contains software and tasks for the benchmark, and is powered by [MuJoCo](https://mujoco.org/).

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Install from source](#install-from-source)
  - [Install from PyPI](#install-from-pypi)
  - [Optional: Download additional soundfonts](#optional-download-additional-soundfonts)
- [MIDI Dataset](#midi-dataset)
- [CLI](#cli)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [FAQ](#faq)
- [Citing RoboPianist](#citing-robopianist)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
- [License and Disclaimer](#license-and-disclaimer)

## Getting Started

We've created an introductory [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google-research/robopianist/blob/main/tutorial.ipynb) notebook that demonstrates how to use RoboPianist. It includes code for loading and customizing a piano playing task, and a demonstration of a pretrained policy playing a short snippet of *Twinkle Twinkle Little Star*. Click the button below to get started!

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google-research/robopianist/blob/main/tutorial.ipynb)

## Installation

RoboPianist is supported on both Linux and macOS and can be installed with Python 3.8 up to 3.10. We recommend using [Miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) to manage your Python environment.

**3.11 will be supported once the numba team resolves [#8304](https://github.com/numba/numba/issues/8304).**

### Install from source

The recommended way to install this package is from source. Start by cloning the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/google-research/robopianist.git && cd robopianist
```

Next, install the prerequisite dependencies:

```bash
git submodule init && git submodule update
bash scripts/install_deps.sh
```

Finally, create a new conda environment and install RoboPianist in editable mode:

```bash
conda create -n pianist python=3.10
conda activate pianist

pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

To test your installation, run `make test` and verify that all tests pass.

### Install from PyPI

First, install the prerequisite dependencies:

```bash
bash <(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/google-research/robopianist/main/scripts/install_deps.sh) --no-soundfonts
```

Next, create a new conda environment and install RoboPianist:

```bash
conda create -n pianist python=3.10
conda activate pianist

pip install --upgrade robopianist
```

### Optional: Download additional soundfonts

We recommend you install additional soundfonts to improve the quality of the synthesized audio. The RoboPianist [CLI](#cli) can be used to list out all available soundfonts, change the default soundfont, and download additional ones. To list out all available commands, run:

```bash
robopianist soundfont --help
```

For more information, see [docs/soundfonts.md](docs/soundfonts.md).

## MIDI Dataset

The PIG dataset cannot be redistributed on GitHub due to licensing restrictions. See [docs/dataset](docs/dataset.md) for instructions on where to download and how to process the

## CLI

RoboPianist comes with a command line interface (CLI) that can be used to download additional soundfonts, play MIDI files, preprocess the PIG dataset, and more. To see a list of available commands, run `robopianist --help`.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to RoboPianist. Please see [docs/contributing.md](docs/contributing.md) for more information.

## FAQ

See [docs/faq.md](docs/faq.md) for a list of frequently asked questions.

## Citing RoboPianist

If you use RoboPianist in your work, please use the following citation:

```bibtex
@software{zakka2023robopianist,
  author = {Zakka, Kevin and Smith, Laura and Gileadi, Nimrod and Howell, Taylor and Peng, Xue Bin and Singh, Sumeet and Tassa, Yuval and Florence, Pete and Zeng, Andy and Abbeel, Pieter},
  title = {{RoboPianist: A Benchmark for High-Dimensional Robot Control}},
  url = {https://github.com/google-research/robopianist},
  year = {2023},
}
```

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the following people for making this project possible:

- [Philipp Wu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/wuphilipp/) and [Mohit Shridhar](https://mohitshridhar.com/) for being a constant source of inspiration and support.
- [Ilya Kostrikov](https://www.kostrikov.xyz/) for constantly raising the bar for RL engineering and for invaluable debugging help.
- The [Magenta](https://magenta.tensorflow.org/) team for helpful pointers and feedback.
- The [MuJoCo](https://mujoco.org/) team for the development of the MuJoCo physics engine and their support throughout the project.

## License and Disclaimer

[MuJoco Menagerie](https://github.com/deepmind/mujoco_menagerie)'s license can be found [here](https://github.com/deepmind/mujoco_menagerie/blob/main/LICENSE). Soundfont licensing information can be found [here](docs/soundfonts.md). MIDI licensing information can be found [here](docs/dataset). All other code is licensed under an [Apache-2.0 License](LICENSE).

This is not an officially supported Google product.
